Mithril update 2024-05-15 (#395)
IntersectMBO/cardano-updates: blog/2024-05-15-mithril.md

---
title: Mithril Team Update
slug: 2024-05-15-mithril
authors: jpraynaud
tags: [mithril]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## High level overview

> This week, the Mithril team released the new distribution [`2418.1`](https://github.com/input-output-hk/mithril/releases/tag/2418.1), which includes broader CPU support for pre-built binaries and a new memory allocator for the signer and aggregator nodes to prevent memory fragmentation. They also continued implementing the certification of Cardano transactions in Mithril networks and worked on scaling the signature and proof generation for `mainnet`: they have completed the implementation of the compression of the transaction Merkle tree using sub-Merkle trees based on transaction block ranges, and they have started testing and assessing performances on the `mainnet` in a test Mithril network. Additionally, they have started working on minimizing the extra disk space requirements for the signer on the SPO infrastructure.
> 
> Finally, the team implemented some optimizations for the aggregator, fixed some bugs on the client, and rolled out a new documentation for compiling the Mithril relay from source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This week, the Mithril team released the new distribution [`2418.1`](https://github.com/input-output-hk/mithril/releases/tag/2418.1), which includes broader CPU support for pre-built binaries and a new memory allocator for the signer and aggregator nodes aimed at preventing memory fragmentation. They also continued implementing the certification of Cardano transactions in Mithril networks and worked on scaling the signature and proof generation for `mainnet`. Specifically, they completed the implementation of compressing the transaction Merkle tree using sub-Merkle trees based on transaction block ranges and initiated testing and assessing performance on `mainnet` in a test Mithril network. Additionally, they started working on minimizing the extra disk space requirements for the signer on the SPO infrastructure.

Finally, the team implemented some optimizations for the aggregator, fixed some bugs on the client, and introduced new documentation for compiling the Mithril relay from source.
```
